The Jerusalem channel is made with the support of you, our viewers.
Thank you for watching.
Despite the mounting controversy over Zionism, according to the Word of God, the Lord has chosen Zion, Jerusalem, in Israel, and he has desired it for his dwelling place forever.
However, there's one other nation, ancient Ilam, which is modern-day Iran,
where God actually also promised to set his throne.
Indeed, a monarch can rule multiple nations and a king can hold more than one throne.
So God's desire to set his throne in Islam in Iran is biblical good news for the beleaguered nation of Iran.
Shalom, I'm Christine Dark.
Last week, I reported about dreams, visions, and conversions happening in Iran with many Iranians embracing Jesus and even loving Israel.
In the ancient pages of Scripture, we find a startling multi-layered declaration in Jeremiah 49 concerning God's redemptive plan, going from scattering to regathering, from judgment to grace.
God even declares He will set His throne in Islam, which is modern-day Iran, and will destroy from there His leadership.
We take this prophecy to heart.
It's a living word that speaks to our world today.
A world where a terrorist regime has loomed large in global headlines.
In fact, current headlines amplify Jeremiah's prophecies.
In 2025, strikes on Iranian assets, collapses of Iranians' terror proxies,
and internal Iranian unrest reflect God's judgment phase.
Blood moons aligning with a feast of trumpets and the Jewish holiday of Purim, which originated in Persia, are seen by some Bible scholars as divine signs.
If regime change occurs, it could trigger a false peace, setting the stage potentially for the rapture and the tribulation period.
And in Tom's theology, Iran's restoration follows judgment
A crippled Iran could rebuild modestly aligning with Sunni powers or with Russia before its prophesied invasion, according to Ezekiel 38 verse 5.
Ultimately, restoration would mean Iran's inclusion in God's kingdom.
After all, Revelation 5-9 envisions ransom people from every nation.
Some prognosticators speculate that a regime collapse would lead to peace with Israel.
enabling Iranian believers to thrive.
In Jeremiah 4935, God promises to shatter the bow of Islam, ancient Iran, meaning God will destroy Iran's military might.
American and Israeli strikes on Iranian nuclear sites since mid 2025 are seen as breaking the bow, shattering Iran's military prowess.
The 1979 Islamic Revolution and subsequent diaspora of many Iranians have scattered millions of Iranians worldwide as the Bible predicted.
Protests against the regime and internal fractures in the Iranian Revolutionary Guard are fueling speculation of impending destruction.
Scholars note that ancient Islam was eventually absorbed into the Persian Empire under Cyrus the Great.
However, God's oracle in Jeremiah 49-39 promises restoration in the latter days.
In fact, the key Hebrew phrase latter days points not backwards to history, but to future messianic in times.
This restoration clause gives eschatological hope to Iranian believers.
So what does it mean for God to set His throne in Islam?
Well, a throne represents kingship, justice, and most of all, presence.
When God sets his throne into place, he's asserting his dominion, judgment, justice, and offer of redemption.
It's very evident that part of Jeremiah's prophecy has come to pass in their generation.
After the Islamic Revolution, the Iranian people who escaped, including the Shah and his family, were scattered all over the globe.
But the prophesied dismantling of Iran's tyrannical leadership is very encouraging.
The Ayatollahs wear a black turban because this signifies their claim to be descended from Muhammad, who according to New Testament definitions was a false prophet.
Because of disillusionment with Islam, the fastest growing church in the world is in Iran.
The people have been suffering for 47 years since the Islamic Revolution.
Today, Iran faces internal strife, drought, economic woes of supersonic inflation,
and international isolation.
Beneath the surface, a spiritual revival is exploding.
Reports from underground churches reveal thousands of Iranians turning to the Prince of Peace because they are disillusioned with radical ideologies, and they're hungry for truth.
Iran's current regime, with his anti-Israel stance, continues the ancient aggression of Islam.
Scripture warns that nations opposing God's purposes will face consequences.
This isn't fear-mongering.
It's simply biblical truth.
God is not mocked.
His throne being situated in the law signals the downfall of Ayatolias who defy him.
God is already enthroned in the hearts of more than a million Iranians who have turned to the Savior in our generation.
Satellite broadcast, online ministries, and smuggled Bibles are piercing the veil.
As I reported last week,
One of the biggest moves of the Holy Spirit is the phenomenon of dreams and visions happening in Iran.
For many years, I believe for the Holy Spirit's outpouring on that nation and it's surely coming to pass.
God's throne in alarm is a promise of transformation from a land of judgment to a land of Jubilee.
Justice Cyrus the Great was anointed to rebuild Jerusalem's temple.
Modern Iran could become a beacon of gospel light in the Middle East.
Imagine former mosques turned into houses of prayer for the return and rule of Jesus.
And as we pray for the Mid-East, including Saudi Arabia, let's proclaim Revelation 1115 as I've actually done in Saudi Arabia.
The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His Messiah and He shall reign forever and ever.
Amen.
The God who spoke through Jeremiah still speaks today
and I'm fascinated by the fact that God promises to set His throne in a nation.
That's why there's such an undeniable anointing in the atmosphere in Jerusalem.
The Bible primarily associates God's throne with Jerusalem as the center of His covenant presence among His people.
I'd like to share some key verses about His throne.
First of all, Jeremiah 3 17 prophesies of the millennium, the thousand-year reign of Jesus on earth, stating, at that time,
They shall call Jerusalem the throne of the Lord, and all the nations shall be gathered unto it to the name of the Lord to Jerusalem."
The phrase at that time points to a future prophetic time, often associated with the second coming of Jesus, which will begin a period of global peace and righteousness.
Jerusalem will cease to be merely the capital city of Israel.
It will become the seat of the Lord's throne with all nations gathering to honor Him.
Now a second verse, Isaiah 66-1, God states, heaven is my throne and the earth is my footstool, emphasizing Jerusalem as the focal point of the Lord's worship and rule.
Furthermore, God described Jerusalem in Ezekiel 43-7 as the place of his throne where he will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel forever.
A key passage, Psalm 132, verses 13 and 14 states,
For the Lord has chosen Zion, he has desired it for his dwelling place, saying, here I will sit enthroned for I have desired it.
All these Bible prophecies depict God's special covenant relationship with Israel, where his throne symbolizes presence, justice, and future millennial reign.
Besides Jerusalem, no other Bible verse, uses the exact phrase, I will set my throne in a specific earthly nation
except for the text that we've been emphasizing today.
Jeremiah 49 verse 38, where God says he will set his throne in Islam, modern day Iran.
In fact, Jeremiah 49 38 is the only explicit promise where God says he will actively set his throne in a Gentile nation as part of judgment against its rulers.
This exception greatly contrasts with Jerusalem
where God's throne represents covenant blessing and restoration for his chosen people, the Jews.
So what makes Elon unique?
In evangelical eschatology, this first points to God's redemptive plan, invading even the most hostile territories, like Iran, the hotbed of global terrorism.
There could be no denying the current spiritual revival amongst Iranians, and it's all part of the promise of latter day's restoration.
So will God's throne is eternally in heaven, ruling all nations?
Scripture highlights two specific focal points on earth in prophetic promises.
Jerusalem is God's throne for the future, gathered nations, and Ilam, Iran, as a site of sovereignty amid judgments.
No other nations receive this precise biblical language.
God certainly is not confined to one land,
but he can invade every realm to establish justice, mercy, and ultimately his glory through Messiah.
As believers, let's praise the Lord who sits and thrown forever, whose kingdom knows no bounds and who promises in Psalm 110 to make the nations his footstool.
And amazingly, let me remind you that Psalm 22 verse three says, God isn't thrown on the praises of his people.
Alleluia.
Meanwhile,
We're praying for the Lord to protect and encourage the Iranian body of Messiah who were so very courageous and brave.
For example, this week, I heard of two Muslim background believers in Yeshua who are part of the underground church in Iran.
A woman engaged to be married, asked her husband to be, what would he do should the Islamic regime decide to put her to death because of her allegiance to the Lord Jesus?
He answered that he would have to let her die
rather than ask her to deny the Lord Jesus.
And then she told him, good, now I know I can marry you because you love the Lord Jesus more than me.
And their resolve, these brave Iranian believers remind me of the three Hebrew young men, Hanania, Michelle, and Azariah in the book of Daniel, better known by their Babylonian names, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
You see, the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar had erected a massive golden image of himself and commanded everybody to worship it or face death in a fiery furnace.
The three Hebrews famously defied his order by saying, Our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace and he will deliver us out of your handle king.
But if he does not, we want you to know
that we will not serve your foreign gods or worship the image of gold that you have set up.
The king was enraged and ordered the furnace heated seven times hotter.
The three Hebrews were thrown into the furnace, but the intense heat killed the executioners, not them.
Astonished, king Nebuchadnezzar actually saw four men, not three, walking unbound and unharmed in the fire.
And the king said the fourth man looked like
a son of the gods.
That's widely interpreted by Bible scholars as either the angel of the Lord or a Christophany, a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus.
The Hebrews emerged completely unscathed, no burns, no singed hair, not even the smell of smoke on their clothing.
That was a great miracle, and indeed our God is able to deliver any of us at any time.
But God sometimes ordains his servants to become martyrs to receive a greater reward.
in the New Testament, the book of Hebrews, addresses suffering not as an accident or a lack of faith but as a necessary part of our life of faith.
Suffering and hardships from time to time are intended to mature us.
Hebrews chapter 11 is famously referred to as the Hall of Faith because it lists various biblical heroes of faith who suffered many hardships including extreme brutality like being stoned, being
destitute living in caves and even being sawn into as church history records happened to the prophet Isaiah.
All of this to demonstrate that suffering is compatible with deep faith.
These heroes are celebrated because they accepted joyfully the seizure of their property and refused release from torture, knowing that they had a better and lasting possession in heaven.
The text states that the world was not worthy of these believers.
The next chapter Hebrews 12 explains suffering as divine discipline or training.
Similar to how a loving father trains a child.
Suffering can be a sign of sonship or daughtership.
The text argues that enduring hardship is proof of being a legitimate child of God.
You see, if a believer never experiences discipline, we would be considered illegitimate children.
However,
suffering is described as purposeful rather than punishments.
Learning to endure hardships is intended to produce a harvest of righteousness and peace and to allow believers to share in the Lord's holiness.
The Book of Hebrews encourages the faithful to fix her eyes on Jesus as our example.
Jesus endured the ordeal and agony of the cross because he was mindful of the joy of the harvest he would receive as a result of the travail of his soul.
In Hebrews 13, 13, we believers are encouraged to go forth to him outside the camp, bearing his reproach and viewing our hardships when we too are often rejected as a way of identifying with the Lord's own rejection.
Hebrews 13, 3, encourages us to remember those who are mistreated and those in prison like many of our Iranian brothers and sisters right now as if we were with them in chains.
So, Sovereign Lord, we petition you to protect your people and to repeat what you did in Exodus 11-7 in Egypt, how you made a miraculous difference between your people and their enemies.
We bless you that although the regime has cut off internet connections, believers in Iran are never cut off from their connection with you, Lord.
So, dear friends, I want to tell you about one of my heroes in the faith,
Henry Martin is why the regarded as the most famous missionary in the history of Persia, modern day Iran.
His short life was only 31 years after he was born in 1781.
Yet he made a lasting impact on Persia and the world.
God is surely always able to make something of our lives whether long or short.
Henry Martin was an Anglican priest, scholar and linguist from England
His brief but intense life's work resulted in his groundbreaking translation of the New Testament into the Persian language Farsi, earning him enduring recognition among evangelicals, historians, and mission scholars.
Henry Martin is often called the first proud submissionary to live in Persia, and he's celebrated for his sacrificial devotion despite battling severe illness and all sorts of spiritual warfare.
Martin was a brilliant student at Cambridge University.
He felt a call to missions after reading about William Carey's groundbreaking work in India.
Martin joined the East India Company as a chaplain arriving in India in 1806.
There he translated the New Testament in Psalms into Hindustani and began work on Persian scriptures inspired by his assistant, who was a converted Muslim.
But tuberculosis-like symptoms prompted doctors to recommend a drier climate for Henry Martin.
He arrived in Persia in 1811 to refine and publish his Persian New Testament.
He was the first Protestant missionary to reside in Persia, working amid Muslim scholars, mulas, and officials.
He engaged in deep theological debates with Shia clerics, defending Christianity with humility and scholarship.
He revised his Persian New Testament, making it more accurate and idiomatic.
He also translated portions of the Psalms and other scriptures.
Despite illness and loneliness, he showed remarkable grace, often winning respect, through piety and intellect.
Martin's journals reveal a man consumed with love for Messiah and love for souls.
You could say he performed exploits in translation due to endurance that could have only been supernatural.
Despite advanced tuberculosis, extreme heat, and travel hardships, he completed monumental translation work in just over a year in Persia.
His New Testament became foundational for later Bible work in Persian-speaking regions and influenced generations of Iranian seekers.
Many modern Iranian Christians trace inspiration to his legacy.
Henry Martin's death at age 31 is seen as a seed sewn in hard soil, contributing to the spiritual harvest that's currently happening in Iran's contemporary revival.
The life and letters of Henry Martin have inspired missionaries worldwide
including the great missionary to China, Hudson Taylor, and others.
Henry Martin's story reminds me that true missionary greatness often lies in quiet faithfulness, scholarship, and dying to self, planting seeds that God waters in his own time.
In these latter days, when Iranians are turning to the risen Lord Jesus and unprecedented numbers, we rejoice in the faithful labors of Henry Martin.
His memory is a blessing.
Well, now on a present note of all the time they spend online, our children and grandchildren are potentially more vulnerable now than ever before.
What worlds are their vulnerable minds truly inhabiting hour by hour, scroll by scroll in front of screens?
Active online radicalization methods are becoming more sophisticated.
Heavy screen time is causing many naive undisciplined persons to embrace violent ideologies.
even outright terrorism, far from their parents' lifestyles and upbringing.
Parents must counter this dangerous online trend by reclaiming time together with children in person, fostering genuine human connections rather than endless computer scrolling.
As followers and ambassadors of Messiah, we're called to embody real relationships with family, church, and neighbors in not just developing virtual contacts.
Meanwhile, Time Magazine's assessment of top global risks for this year reveals a world accelerating toward dangerous instability on nearly every front.
That's according to Prophecy News Watch.
As trends continue, the world will increasingly demand order at any cost, coming in line with conditions described in scripture, political upheaval, technological dominance, economic coercion, and the weaponization of resources are no longer distant dangers.
They are operational realities, already shaping how nations react, how markets move, and how populations are governed.
For secular analysts, it's all about risk management.
But for Christians who take Bible prophecy seriously, it's something far more sobering.
It looks like prophetic alignment.
Governments are weakening or polarizing.
Trust in institutions is collapsing.
Economic systems are increasingly used as weapons
and emerging technologies are consolidating unprecedented power in the hands of a few individuals.
Add to this, intensifying wars, a so-called board of peace, tribal conflict, and looming resource shortages, especially water.
And you have a global environment prime, not for stability, but for breakdowns and desperation.
And desperation is where dangerous solutions are born, according to Prophecy News Watch.
Scripture has long warned that global chaos will precede the rise of deceptive world leader, one who promises peace, order, and security, but who delivers bondage and destruction.
The book of Revelation does not describe the Antichrist emerging in a calm world.
He will rise in a world exhausted by conflict, fractured by fear, and desperate for anyone who can make the uncertainty and trouble seemingly go away.
Time magazine's conclusion that instability is accelerating on nearly every front, echoes the words of Jesus himself.
In Matthew 24, Jesus Yeshua warned his disciples that before the end, the world would experience warfare in rumors of war, nation rising against nation, famines, perplexities and upheaval, calls for worldwide peace.
What he called the beginning of birth pains, and birth pains don't subside,
They intensify.
Political instability is conditioning the world to accept centralized authority.
As nation-states struggle to govern fractured populations, the appeal of a unifying global leader grows stronger.
In times of fear, people tend to trade their freedom for promises of security, and often they do so willingly.
Revelation 13 describes a future system in which buying and selling are strictly controlled.
where economic participation itself becomes a tool of obedience, a cashless, digitized, globally integrated economy is no longer futuristic.
It's increasingly looming over us, like the proverbial Damocles sword.
The enabling systems already are being built now.
Technology may be the most powerful accelerant of it all.
According to Prophecy News Watch, AI driven surveillance is not a single technology policy or system.
It's a converging architecture, one that integrates identification, classification, behavioral monitoring, narrative control, and economic enforcement into a unified framework of governance.
The book of Revelation warns of lying signs and wonders, but deception in the modern age doesn't require only miracles.
It requires control of information, perception, and digital identity.
Global tech dominance makes mass deception not only possible, but efficient.
Competition over energy, food and water is intensifying.
Also, just as scripture foretold, scarcity and famine will be characteristics of the end times.
People who control resources can control populations.
Centralize resource distribution and you can centralize power.
It becomes necessary.
The world will not resist.
the world eventually will demand it.
And out of the convergence of political and economic instability, technological dominance and resource scarcity will emerge the perfect storm, the perfect environment for a global leader who will appear to be reasonable, competent, some sort of a savior.
The Antichrist will not arrive as a villain.
He'll come on the scene as a deceptive deliverer.
He'll offer peace, unity, and solutions, and the exhausted world will willingly follow him.
This is precisely the level of deception that the book of Revelation warns us about.
A global leader requires a global system and technological tools capable of enforcing compliance.
Day by day, the world is being conditioned for this compliance, step by step, for centralized authority, for diminished national sovereignty and therefore mass deception.
For believers, this is not a call to panic, but to discernment.
Jesus warned his followers in advance to keep us from being deceived.
As the world demands order at any cost, Christians must remember that true peace doesn't come from global systems or from a peace board or charismatic leaders, but from the Lord alone.
Like the brave Iranian believers who were choosing freedom over tyranny, may we overcome the world's systems by the blood of the Lamb and the word of our testimony, and may we not love our lives even unto death,
because eternity is a very long time.
To be safe, we must remain faithful to the Lord and His Word.
My question at this moment remains, are you convinced that God reigns supreme over history and the nations?
Do you know the Lord Jesus as Messiah and Savior?
To escape all the judgments catalogued in the book of Revelation, we must confess Jesus as Lord.
If he's not yet done so, I urge you to call on his name and believe that he is the Son of God.
who died for our sins and rose from the dead, and then the Bible promises, you shall be saved, and you'll be ready for the soon and sudden appearing of the Lord."
That's our Blessed Hope, amen.
In the meantime, I'd love to hear from you on social media or through our free Jerusalem channel, Mobile App.
Please follow all my articles at Substack.com and all of our videos at our Jerusalem channel and YouTube platform, as well as our website, exploits.tv.
where you have the opportunity to support our work financially.
We would be so grateful for that because we have many programs that reach out for all the people in the Middle East, including a scholarship for university students.
Finally, we invite you to sign up for our weekly email alert called exploits based upon Daniel 1132 declaring the people who know their God will be strong not weak and will accomplish biblical exploits.
the works of the Lord in the remaining time before His imminent return.
Come on, let's keep contending for the faith and praying earnestly for the peace of Jerusalem and the entire region.
I'm Christine Darg, Shalom and Maranatha.